automated testing when Kent Beck and Erich Gamma introduced JUnit for Java development (http://junit.org)
xUnit is the collective name for several unit testing frameworks for various languages
All the xUnit-style unit testing frameworks more or less derive their functionality, structure, and coding style from Smalltalk’s unit testing framework SUnit.
Kent Beck designed and wrote SUnit. After it gained popularity, it was ported to Java as JUnit by Kent Beck and Erich Gamma.
Eventually, it was ported to almost every programming language.
Now most of the programming languages come pre-packaged with at least one xUnit-style test automation library.
A Python version, originally dubbed PyUnit, was created in 1999 and added to Python's standard set of libraries later in 2001 in Python 2.1.
Currently, the PyUnit library is available for both versions of Python, that is, 2.7 (https://docs.python.org/2.7/library/unittest.html) and 3.x (https://docs.python.org/3.6/library/unittest.html). 
The PyUnit became part of the Python Standard library from version 2.5 onward. It was rechristened unittest.
unittest came to life as a third-party module PyUnit. PyUnit was the Python port for JUnit. JUnit is Java's xUnit-style unit test automation framework.
Since then, the Python community has referred to it as unittest, the name of the library imported into the test code.
Unittest is part of the standard library, which requires no extra installation steps.
Also, many programming languages like Python and Java have more than one xUnit-style framework. Java has TestNG in addition to JUnit. Python has nose, pytest, and Nose2 apart from unittest.
docstring and doctest and their use in writing simple, static, yet elegant test cases for Python 3 programs
due to the lack of features like API, configurable tests, and test fixtures, doctest enjoys very limited popularity
Unittest is the batteries-included test automation library of Python, which means you do not have to install an additional library or tool in order to start using it.
